---
title: 'Slowly but surely.'
excerpt: 'After almost a month and a half since starting my capstone project, it is such a relief to have it up and functional. I wasn’t pleased with what digi was at the time of my capstone presentation and it has gone through somewhat of a makeover with some new functionality'
date: '2022-05-04T05:35:07.322Z'
author: Cristopher Cunas
---

After almost a month and a half since starting my capstone project, it is such a relief to have it up and functional. I wasn’t pleased with what digi was at the time of my capstone presentation and it has gone through somewhat of a makeover with some new functionality. What started as code refactoring eventually led me to redesigning the entire backend and me building out an entirely new client side using Next.js and Material UI. Some other fun tools I had the pleasure of working with that I didn’t get to before, includes Iron Session for authentication, Yup for form validation, SWR React Hooks, AWS RDS, Digital Ocean VPS and of course, Next.js. Can you tell I’ve been busy? The good people over at Vercel make transitioning to their framework easier than ever with all of the detailed documentation on nextjs.org. You can now host your personal blog on our platform and easily manage it though your profile account. Additionally , you can also post status updates, create community discussion and follow your favorite people.

I ran into many roadblocks through this rebuild which led me to take a few days off and focus on my portfolio website, which I was able to get up and running on Vercel. I found myself in a loop of trying to solve a problem using the same approach every time and expecting different results. I was burnt out mentally and physically. While it’s hard to walk away from something you can’t solve and feel defeated for a second, it’s sometimes the best thing to do. Time off from coding, specifically on this site, allowed me to reset and dive deep into documentation and videos to see where I was going wrong. It ultimately paid off in the end. Currently, creating a new account is disabled as I’m working on a few bugs, but you are able to visit my profile and take a look at previous blog posts & status updates. The current UI is not definite either. Spending so much time on functionality kind of led me to ignore design until about 2 days ago. Once I have a more consistent design layout and add a few more user features, digi will be free to use for everyone. Thanks for reading y’all.

